alright I'm recording this now so be
aware look lively okay uh let's do it
hello everyone welcome to the ipfs core
implementations weekly sync it is
December the 9th we are running out of
time of for 2019 it's it's rapidly
dwindling away but at the end comes good
things so if you're here can you please
put your name on the attendees list of
the notes I will put the notes in the
chat right now Jacob has volunteered to
be note-taker for today so thank you
Jake
you
all right
you have a weekly update then please at
the bottom of the document is the place
where you can put that and people will
review it asynchronously we won't go
over in this meeting but what happens
when it's meeting finishes that we would
send a pull request to
IVFs / team management and that's where
we check each other's weekly reports I
still haven't done mine but I would get
it done after the meeting as soon as I
can so put it put it in there please if
you have an update that we read and next
up we will go through the initiatives
and see what progress we have on the
things that we are working on cool so so
people keep messaging me all right
I've coming and shipped really see
things so last week we talked about how
jess IVFs 340 had shipped next up I've
made the issue for Jess I with a Serie
41 and if you look at the issue it's
gonna be amazing
it's going to be really really good
we're gonna have UNIX FS 1.5 implemented
so you can now put metadata along with
your imported files so that'll be super
cool ipfs add performance has increased
as increase it's better now than it was
significantly better and also we have
brand new api's finally our endeavor to
rewrite the entire code base in in
promises and async it erases and things
has has bubbled up to write up to ipfs
we have many modules that refactor has
been part of a 70 or treepo refactor but
it's finally done and it's going to
yield huge benefits and I'm hoping to
write a blog post on that for a later
this week so keep your eyes out
not literally so
that's that does anyone else have any
questions or upcoming or shipped things
they want to talk about before we move
on
all right let's move on up testing an
infra they are together for a hack week
this week I'm guessing there's no one
back home wait when you with them no
well it's a general jerk okay good just
checking okay listen okay Jim did you
want to update us on anything sorry I
didn't realize you were here haha yeah
there's just a several a lot of
initiatives going on a lot of work
Anton's joined the team and he's done a
lot of work on the infrastructure so
getting things to spin up on Amazon Web
Services so he took that over for me and
that's going amazingly well and
[Music]
Henriques been doing a lot of work on
one of the test plans and that we're all
and Stephen there there's gonna be a big
week because they're going to really try
to nail some of the DHT issues and get
that ready so they can as a block or
forego ipfs the next release and having
them all together in one place expecting
big progress on that so and for myself
and I'm starting work on a new test test
plans are going to try to do some
network conductivity try to figure out
how to hole punch your nuts and things
in the test ground environment and
simulate that nice I should
so mentioned that this work that is
being done on the test ground will
hopefully be completed in time for a now
scheduled go ipfs release 0.5 for the
24th of December I think which is it's
gonna be a really nice Christmas so that
was maybe last week that I heard that so
that could have changed but that's worth
maybe noting down for all of them
although the view is cool thank you Jim
any does anyone have any questions for
Jim alrighty let's move on
certainement Gateway Lytle are you here
would you like to give an update yep
quick updates there's a relevant
discussion in I prefer dogs it started
for around our new dogs website but the
problems are relevant to everyone and
basically our endeavor to be great to
see a DV 1 by 32 to expose sub to move
from pass back gateway to like abdomen
gate gateways for websites all those
topics are highly relevant to the
discussion so if anyone is interested in
good points made there and we are having
a design review meeting tomorrow I
believe at 4 p.m. Central European Time
it's in ipfs community calendar if
someone wants to join will be discussing
topics from this issue it's mostly about
are we able to make it easier today to
publish web site on my PFS without
worrying about relative stuff things
like that and that's also like companion
mixed into this discussion however going
back to actual development we sort of
talked with Steven last week what needs
to happen to unblock pier IDs as C IDs
in IDF has passed like IP NS passed in
gold land cause it's interesting
situation will need solve this issue in
jail and but we still got open 80 hours
on the go so the next step is to unblock
deja I linked it's about basically like
accepting see IDs during the same change
we did and already shipped in jail and
when that happens we will bubble up
to go ipfs not sure if it will land it
the next release however like the the
end goal is to coordinate both go and
Jas to provide subdomain gateway
functionality out of the box and that's
for or less like the goal this like
support on path is nice but actually
does not solve the underlying issues so
we will probably coordinate in the
beginning of 2020 shipping subdomain
gateway out of the box right now if you
want to run subdomain gateway you need
to run nginx in front of go ideas of JSF
device because it does not understand
how the header yet but we will get that
that's it I believe from mine
nice thank you light or the just for
anyone who's listening the TLDR with
relative passes that are gateways we
have like type of SiO / IP fest less
hash and then if you want to host a
website there all of your links have to
be relative to that URL otherwise you
end up it's like some weird place off
the top of IP of esta io and moving to a
subdomain gateway we get a security wins
for doing that but also like a lot of
tools out there that generate static web
sites just don't do relative paths very
well so they all assume like you can
just have a it's just an absolute path
like it from a the root of a website so
it will be a big win on that cool thank
you Thank You Ida
next up we have right distributed
signaling I assume is still on hold and
this IP n s Aidan or Hugo yeah for I
pass over pub/sub the lib p2p side is I
think merger Bowl so that's pretty cool
the ipfs side is is pretty good although
due to some awkward dependency things I
can't merge that on until the datastore
PR is merged so yeah a little awkward
there
yes dependency hell it's it's a thing
all right cool thank you any questions
or anything else all right next up we
had again with data stars yeah so
there's an epic for tracking like the
few steps we need to move things along
the integration inside galactic fast
thanks to Steven and dark is seems to be
basically at the edge it just needs a
review and a sign-off so hopefully
that's that and then I will be you know
doing what needs to get done there but
mostly moving to the p2p and EH to
things
awesome thank you cool any questions for
Wade in alrighty next up we have
migration to multi hash keys I did hear
from Adam actually and he's looking to
maybe come back to doing some work on
this but it's still on hold
basically there is no bandwidth in my in
my calendar at the moment to get us done
and so we'll probably as Lida was saying
and get this addressed in 2020 when it
comes around
who feels like we're in the future
already alright so bit swap updates duck
do you have Oh currently going for a
review do you want to say anything else
not much more than that yeah I'm just
currently going through review I have a
test plan written in test ground but we
still need to there's like a couple of
other things that needs to be finished
off with the test ground so you can do
traffic shaping and testing different
versions and stuff like that I'm also
going to probably start working on the
JavaScript side just to make sure that
we can get interrupts from the gecko
nice I wanted to ask actually is there
will it be breaking to the JSI BFS bits
work
no so so the go side will still respond
the site expects okay but it has these
extensions to make it yeah exactly so so
the other way it's it's gonna be less
efficient unless I update javascript
gotcha
very cool thank you alright so any any
other questions for Derek quickly no
okay
the async/await and refactor so I put
these down the JSF if I say HTTP client
there is a big pull request I'm know I'm
a bit of a hypocrite
because I will
encouraging people to do small pool
requests and then I go and land a
massive one because anyway I didn't I
didn't expect it but it turned out to be
but it's the HTTP client is kind of done
and ready pending reviews and changes
the slice is now down to hhk it was 246
so that's a pretty big win and enjoy
ipfs I'm working on that this week
bubbling up all of the good stuff I'm
hoping that Lee and the p2p will release
a version of it's a sicko a trifecta
stuff so that can also be included in in
this but yeah J so we're in on the final
furlong hurdle whatever you want to call
it but it should be should be out
relatively soon and the idea is to have
this these new api's which includes like
only only promise based api's own only
async iterators know lots of different
types of streaming api's in the next
release which is 0.41 and that's
probably due to land mid-january but i'm
hoping to be able to get a release
candidate out before christmas roof all
right um Jacob of ochco would like to
update us on the b2b side of things
yes we would yeah so we went through and
on the daemon went through refactor the
daemon to use the latest a singlet p2p
and bubbled that up to the daemon client
and Interop so go and jaea slippy to be
interrupts us are passing for the
refactor so we didn't break everything
so that's good then
got the refactor the to the low p2p
dialer to be toke based set EQ based on
that is pending a final review but
should be good to go this week we are
finishing up things stats in connection
manager those are smaller efforts but
they are the last of what we need to
ship so once those and the token dialer
are reviewed we should be good to do a
pre-release so we are targeting a
pre-release this week we will do it it
will go out the door
and then hopefully we'll get an official
RC out early early next week at the
latest bashko has been cranking away on
docks so we've got a bunch of improved
docks for the p2p there's new API doc
there is a new configuration dock which
we didn't have before which explains
what the configuration is that's
typically been a nightmare for people
and we already got some community
feedback that that is a vast improvement
over what we had and then Bosh was gonna
be working on a getting started docks
for limb p2p for more entry-level stuff
this week we're doing the remaining
examples this week and then yeah like I
said the pre-release and then we will
start integrating into Jayce ipfs and
then we'll work on creating a full
migration guide from there for all of
our other users that is it any questions
super-good nice Thank You Jacob if there
are no
questions and then we will move on to
there's no design review proposals this
week I left these two things from the
week last week in the week before Jo so
professor Jeff I because httpclient are
relicensing to a dual MIT and I might
visit MIT or just MIT I don't even know
that plus a factually - and so if your
name is in the list in either one of
these issues then please please like
sign off on that change if you are okay
with it um that would be really useful
um cool that's all from me any other
blockers or asks all right any questions
random questions that you fought off
just now and early May space 32 question
um what level of problem earlier with
the fact that we advertise see IDs in
the DHT and not multi hashes like this
is something from a while ago I'm just
wondering like how much of a problem and
actually which to multi ashes is I think
the solutions what the proposed solution
well yeah I guess I'm just wondering
like how bad it is given that I'm gonna
be spelunking indeed you know it's not
feel bad because CID v-0 is are just
multi ashes
but if we start using geo TV once and
it's bad
I believe the things we felt like to
correct queries right now don't we you
say that again I can really hear I mean
right now if you want to do a query for
a multi house you are basically four CID
b0 and I think we also asked for CID p1
just in case right in the repo so I
thought Aden was talking about provider
records in the DHD yeah okay so light
alluding to in the repo I think where we
do a dual check so if we don't find a
piece of content under a CID V 0 then we
check CID v1 and vice-versa and then we
go to the network but you can't just
show co d v1 because there are code
there are codecs right yeah if it's
possible to do the conversion that is
the solution to store everything is the
ID of user as a multi hash as the key
with this like it assumes an encoding
right it assumes a yeah and a encoding
for the multi hash is like the answer
basically it's not a huge deal but when
we switch to CID v1 by default it's
gonna be pretty painful
yeah essentially the the thing is we
just need to solve these few problems
before we switch and then when we switch
there won't be any issue like it will be
painful if we don't solve these yeah
like you said exactly what you said is
there a timeline unlike one we're hoping
to get like actually say like yes v1
things by then I'd so personally I've
really wanted to get this done before
the end of the year but I just haven't
had enough time to to do it and I was I
was actually hoping to maybe make some
pretty PRS to go ipfs to to help it
along
if I don't have time this year which I
very unlikely will not it will hopefully
be next year early next year because
this is like this is what's in the way
of using crts in in subdomain sense
Peter in question
yeah follow-up to that
does this actually affect GX in any way
because yes we moved away from it with a
lot of stuff still use because
everything there is CID zero yeah I
can't really comment on that
I've cuz I turn to an ego development
but I haven't doesn't go largely moved
away from cheating using GX largely but
not completely
yeah probably does yet stuff still yeah
III can't really comment to be honest
but I imagine it would
Thanks all right if there are any other
questions any more questions do we move
on to talk about the parking lot so
what's next he's got something here it's
mine all I do it sort of like yet
another strength of unspooling that
issue I mentioned in subdomain gateway
section part of the fault like the
solution or yeah there's a ongoing
problem of IP first companion breaking
origin security sandbox of DNS link
website to put it in a short sentence
and there's a proposal of solving that
by stopping the redirect by default and
if user chooses to open but until we do
we have subdomain gateway on localhost
so for now we would stop the redirect
and we would open like if by default the
regularize ditch server that that's
probably a IP first gateway and if user
chooses to open the website from the
local gateway that would be in the
browser browser action menu as an view
on a gateway but that would open it in a
new tab
excuse me in a new tab because it's a
separate origin we would start breaking
the origin separation of the origin
website and the idea is to preload the
actual the DNS link assets to the local
gateway anyway so in case that server is
down the data would be in local cache in
the local network same for like the
co-hosting aspects or distributing
content in a beautiful fashion we would
be still sitting even though the initial
load was not
local gateway I would just appreciate
sound like sanity check on on that idea
there's a link to the companion better
release if anyone is interested how the
behavior of IP first companion would be
until we ship subdomain gateways that's
the place to raise your voice I guess
thank you yeah there's a lot
seems to be a lot of them yes now that
we're experiencing the pain firsthand
everyone's like we should solve this but
yeah it's it's an old issue and we need
to just get on it and they went with
just sorry just like add additional data
point is that we have the same problem
with like subdomain gateways right now
like CloudFlare and we got the d web
link in both cases when you load CID
through that subdomain gateway you get
this original ation and companion does
not redirect that but for the nesting
website we do redirect to the idea is to
simply like unify this behavior and give
the security isolation by default which
we we do provide for subdomain gateways
with it just for historical reasons we
can redirect Indian I think that's it
gotcha thank you all right
I've lost the notes but I think we were
pretty much done right oh there it is
right yeah we are all done unless anyone
else has anything else they want to say
in the last two minutes of the call I
will bid
farewell until next time where I will
see you a lovely faces again in the
meantime please do have a lovely week do
some awesome IPF essing and I'll see you
next time bye bye thank you